# 20230816 Wednesday

# Leetcode daily

[239. Sliding Window Maximum](https://leetcode.com/problems/sliding-window-maximum/description/)

The first idea is simply to follow the question description, use a sliding window then check the max value of the window.
the time complexity is O(k \* m) since max requires O(k) implement on every item of the list.
The answer works, but it is too slow.

```py
class Solution:
    def maxSlidingWindow(self, nums: List[int], k: int) -> List[int]:
        q = deque()
        l,r = 0, 0
        ans = []
        while r < len(nums):
            q.append(nums[r])
            if r - l + 1 == k:
                ans.append(max(q))
                q.popleft()
                l += 1

            r += 1

        return ans
```

The better solution is using a monotonic queue to record the index of the current maximize value index and get the answer by sliding window.

The processes are list in fellow:

1. Init a left and right, pointer (`l r`) for sliding window, deque (`q`) for monotonic queue. list `ans` for return.
   The values in `q` indicate the largest value index in the current window.
2. Start moving the right pointer:

- Continues to check if `q` exists value and the `nums` index of `q` last value is less then the `nums` index of `r`, we remove `q` last value since the value less than current `nums[r]` we are not interested.
- add current index `r` to `q`
- if the left pointer is larger then `q` first value means the window is leaving the index, so we remove `q` first value.
- check the window size, if it is equal to `k`, means we should add a value to `ans`, the current max value of the window is `nums[q[0]]`, append it to the `ans`

3. Return the `ans`

```py
class Solution:
    def maxSlidingWindow(self, nums: List[int], k: int) -> List[int]:
        q = deque()
        l,r = 0, 0
        ans = []
        while r < len(nums):
            while len(q) and nums[q[-1]] < nums[r]:
                q.pop()

            q.append(r)
            if l > q[0]:
                q.popleft()

            if r - l + 1 == k:
                ans.append(nums[q[0]])
                l += 1

            r += 1

        return ans
```

## Python

`queue.Queue` and `Collections.deque`
[difference-between-queue-queue-vs-collections-deque-in-python](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/difference-between-queue-queue-vs-collections-deque-in-python/)

`queue.Queue`, is used to facilitate communication between two threads originating from the same process.  
`collections.deque`, is a general data structure, which behaves like a regular FIFO Queue. This is employed within a thread to get some functionality done.
The link between them is that `queue.Queue` uses `collections.deque` internally.

## Using Chrome dev tool debug Node.js memory leak

using `--inspect` on execution, then open the chrome dev tool will see a node icon, open it can check the memory status for the node process.

```bash
node --inspect ./node_modules/.bin/nuxt start",
```

## CSS inline-block

Interesting CSS property, I did not use inline-block very often, so I don't realize that this property has a feature that may cause confuse.

- The baseline of an 'inline-block' is the baseline of its last line box in the normal flow, unless it has either no in-flow line boxes or if its 'overflow' property has a computed value other than 'visible', in which case the baseline is the bottom margin edge.

[why-is-this-inline-block-element-pushed-downward](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/9273016/why-is-this-inline-block-element-pushed-downward)
