# 20230814 Monday

## leetcode daily

[215. Kth Largest Element in an Array](https://leetcode.com/problems/kth-largest-element-in-an-array/)

The very first idea of this question is using sorting, but it specifically indicates that by not using sorting, the problem becomes difficult.

```py
class Solution:
    def findKthLargest(self, nums: List[int], k: int) -> int:
        nums.sort()
        return nums[-k]
```

The other solution is using min heap, we can keep the heap length of k and push every number to the heap, finally returning the head of the min heap.

```

```

The solution to this problem is using quick select, which is similar to quick sort.

The algorithm is following the steps

1. Determine a pivot index, we can choose the last index for example.
2. start iterating the arr and init three arr `l, r, m,` if the value is equal pivot value, append value to `m`, else if larger than the pivot value append value to the `l`, else append to `r`.
3. After the iteration, if the `l` length is less equal than `k` means the ans is in the `l` arr, we recursive call `quickSelect` on `l` and `k`, otherwise check if `l` plus `m` length is less than `k`, if true means the ans is on the `r` and since the `l` and `m` are part of larger numbers, so we need to adjust the k and recursive call `quickSelect` on `r` and `k - len(l) - len(m)`, else means the value is just the answer we looking for, return the pivot value.

```py
class Solution:
    def findKthLargest(self, nums: List[int], k: int) -> int:
        def quickSelect(nums, k):
            p = nums[-1]
            l, m, r = [], [], []
            for num in nums:
                if num > p:
                    l.append(num)
                elif num < p:
                    r.append(num)
                else:
                    m.append(num)

            if k <= len(l):
                return quickSelect(l, k)
            if len(l) + len(m) < k:
                return quickSelect(r, k - len(l) - len(m))

            return p

        return quickSelect(nums, k)
```

## extra leetcode problem

[76. Minimum Window Substring](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-window-substring/description/?envType=study-plan-v2&envId=top-interview-150)

This one could instantly think of a sliding window, but some edge conditions need to consider to solve this problem.

1. Create an `dict` to keep track of the characters in string t and how many times they occur.

2. Set some more variables:

- `ans` (to keep track of the answer).
- `count` (to count the remaining characters needed).
- `l` (the left pointer of the sliding window).

3. Iterate through `s`: Now, loop through each character in string `s`:

- Check if the current character in `s` is also in the `dict` (meaning it's a character from t that we're interested in):
  - If it is, decrement the count for that character in the `dict`. This indicates that we've found one occurrence of that character.
  - If the count becomes 0 or negative, it means we've found all occurrences of that character that we needed. In this case, decrement the count variable. We're getting closer to finding all characters from `t`.

4. Slide the window:  
   Enter a while loop that continues as long as we've found all the required characters from `t` (count == 0):

- Update the ans variable to store the current minimum window found so far.
  - Move the left pointer `l` one step to the right. This effectively shortens the window from the left side.
  - Check if the character at the left end of the window (s[l]) is in `dict` (a character from `t`):
    - If it is, increment the count for that character in `dict`. This means we're removing one occurrence of that character from the window.
    - If the count becomes greater than 0, it means we need more occurrences of that character in the window. So, increment the count variable.
    - Increment the left pointer `l` to slide the window further.

5. Final Result:  
   After the loop finishes, we've scanned through the entire string `s` while maintaining a sliding window that contains all the required characters from `t` at least once.
   The `ans` variable now holds the minimum window that satisfies the conditions. This is the smallest substring of `s` that contains all characters from `t`.

- Return Result:
  - If `ans` is not None, return it as the answer.
  - If `ans` is None, return an empty string ''.

```py
class Solution:
    def minWindow(self, s: str, t: str) -> str:
        t_dict = {}
        for char in t:
            t_dict[char] = t_dict.get(char, 0) + 1

        ans = None
        count = len(t)
        l = 0
        for r in range(len(s)):
            if s[r] in t_dict:
                if t_dict[s[r]] > 0:
                    count -= 1
                t_dict[s[r]] -= 1

            while r >= l and count == 0:
                if ans == None:
                    ans = s
                if (r - l + 1 < len(ans)):
                    ans = s[l:r + 1]

                if s[l] in t_dict:
                    if t_dict[s[l]] > -1:
                        count += 1
                    t_dict[s[l]] += 1
                l += 1

        return ans if ans != None else ''
```

## Linux

### Linux timezone setting

in `usr/share/zoneinfo` contains all timezones we can set, for example,`/user/share/zoneinfo/Asia/Taipei` is a timezone we can use.  
`/etc/localtime` is a soft link, link to a file `usr/share/zoneinfo` dir, means the current setting timezone.

e.g setting timezone to `Asia/Taipei`

```bash
ln -sf /user/share/zoneinfo/Asia/Taipei /etc/localtime
```
