# Wednesday

## Leetcode daily

Problem [2616. Minimize the Maximum Difference of Pairs](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimize-the-maximum-difference-of-pairs/)

My first thought of this problem is that the order is irrelevant since we are looking for pairs and don't care about their index, so sorting the numbers is the first thing to do.  
Then we need to check the pair one by one and consider choosing the minimal pair in each iteration until reach the goal. But I WAS WRONG, choosing minimal pair is not guaranteed to get minimize of maximum difference, if one pair choose, it cause its neighbor to increase the difference.  
The correct idea is to use binary search. Assuming that the minimum maximum difference is `mid = left + right // 2` then check if we can have `p` pairs.  
To check `p` pairs we can use greedy algorism, since if we choose pair in the middle of arr instead of the greedy way it only will result in a larger difference for answer.

```py
class Solution:
    def minimizeMax(self, nums: List[int], p: int) -> int:
        nums.sort()
        n = len(nums)
        l, r = 0, nums[-1] - nums[0]
        while r > l:
            mid = (l + r)//2
            count = 0
            i = 1
            while i < n:
                if nums[i] - nums[i - 1] <= mid:
                    count += 1
                    i += 1
                i += 1
            if count >= p:
                r = mid
            else:
                l = mid + 1
        return l
```

## fix bug for matrix click menu

every menu item is a router link, the redirect function triggers the menu update:expanded-keys, and then menuExpanded gets incorrect params.

## Django todo app note

Send a POST request to Django, it will be blocked, and response 403, saying that it is blocked because `CSRF verification failed. Request aborted.`  
To handle this issue can use `csrf_exempt` decorate on top of the view method.

```py
from django.views.decorators.csrf import csrf_exempt

@csrf_exempt
def create_todo(request: HttpRequest):
    if request.method != 'POST':
        return HttpResponse('bad reqest', status=405)
    return HttpResponse('POST response')

```
