# First post

This is the first post of this blog.
This blog is going to be a diary and record some of my thoughts and opinions, including but not limited to web development, frontend engineering, personal murmur ...etc. I will also use this blog to practice my English writing skill, so most of the content will be written in English.

### [Leetcode problem 74](https://leetcode.com/problems/search-a-2d-matrix/description/). Search a 2D Matrix(20230807 daily problem)

According to the limitation of the problem description, this question can be solved by binary search. so the idea is to use binary search twice to get the answer.

```py
def searchMatrix(self, matrix: List[List[int]], target: int) -> bool:
    l, r = 0, len(matrix) - 1

    while r >= l:
        m = (r + l)//2
        if matrix[m][0] == target:
            return True
        elif matrix[m][0] > target:
            r = m - 1
        else:
            l = m + 1

    target_row = (r + l)//2
    l, r = 0, len(matrix[target_row]) - 1
    while r >= l:
        m = (r + l)//2
        if matrix[target_row][m] == target:
            return True
        elif matrix[target_row][m] > target:
            r = m - 1
        else:
            l = m + 1
    return False

```

### Working record

Today I am going to fix the "Matrix admin page"'s issue, "Matrix admin page" is our company's internal web-based tool for the Game-Operation team to manage their web events, which was developed by our team.  
The issue is a feature bug reported by our QA, the situation is when they use the table's edit function the editing data will be lost if switch on multi-row to edit status and submit one of them.

- locate issue  
   this problem is caused by the rerender of the functional component when updating table data, the naive-ui-admin table uses a functional component to render table cells when table data is updated, it triggers the whole table rerender, making the table cells lose its previous state since it is new one.
- solution  
  after some research, I find that there are two possible solutions, the first one is just to sample not reload all data after the update, and only update the inner data in the table cell to prevent rerender. The second one is to create a temp store to save the editing values, after the data is updated, check if the key match in the store and restore the value of editing components. I prefer the first one.
